The President:
Earlier this week, we did
something that's never been done
here at the White House --
we had a Twitter Town Hall.
I even sent my first
live tweet as President.
The questions at the town hall
were sent in from across the
country and covered
all kinds of topics --
from jobs and the economy
to education and energy.
Lots of people also submitted
different versions of
another question.
They'd start by saying
that our politics has grown
so contentious.
Then they'd ask, when will
both parties in Congress come
together on behalf of the
people who elected them?
That's a really
important question,
and it goes to the heart of a
debate we're having right now in
this country -- and that's the
debate about how to tackle the
problem of our
deficits and our debt.
Now, there are obviously real
differences in approach.
I believe we need a
balanced approach.
That means taking on spending in
our domestic programs and our
defense programs.
It means addressing the
challenges in programs like
Medicare so we can strengthen
those programs and protect them
for future generations.
And it means taking on
spending in the tax code --
spending on tax breaks
and deductions for the
wealthiest Americans.
But I also know that Republicans
and Democrats don't see eye to
eye on a number of issues.
And so, we're going to continue
working over the weekend to
bridge those gaps.
The good news is, we agree
on some of the big things.
We agree that after a decade of
racking up deficits and debt,
we need to get our
fiscal house in order.
We agree that to do that, both
sides are going to have to step
outside of their comfort
zones and make some
political sacrifices.
And we agree that we simply
cannot afford to default on our
national obligations for the
first time in our history;
that we need to uphold the full
faith and credit of the United
States of America.
With a recovery that's still
fragile and isn't producing all
the jobs we need, the last
thing we can afford is the usual
partisan game-playing
in Washington.
By getting our fiscal
house in order,
Congress will be in a stronger
position to focus on some of the
job-creating measures
I've already proposed --
like putting people to
work rebuilding America's
infrastructure, or reforming
our patent system so that our
innovators and entrepreneurs
have a greater incentive to
generate new products, or
making college more affordable
for families.
And businesses that may be
holding back because the
uncertainty surrounding the
possibility of a default by the
United States government will
have greater confidence to
invest and create jobs.
I know we can do this.
We can meet our
fiscal challenge.
That's what the American
people sent us here to do.
They didn't send us to kick
our problems down the road.
That's exactly what they
don't like about Washington.
They sent us here
to work together.
to get things done.
Right now, we have
an extraordinary --
and an extraordinarily rare --
opportunity to move forward in a
way that makes sure our
government lives within its
means, that puts our economy
on a sounder footing for the
future, and that still invests
in the things we need to prosper
in the years to come.
And I'm hopeful that we
will rise to the moment,
and seize this opportunity,
on behalf of all Americans,
and the future we
hold in common.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.